# Introduction

This is a CLI tool for the Gopamin framework. Gopamin CLI creates new projects based on ideas promoted by [Standard Go Project Layout](https://github.com/golang-standards/project-layout) which is a **well-accepted** architecture by the Go community (It's not an official standard defined by the core Go dev team; however, it is a set of common historical and emerging project layout patterns in the Go ecosystem).  
To create this tool, I got inspirations from [Golang Blueprint](https://github.com/Melkeydev/go-blueprint) and some of its functionalities are used inside this tool.

**THIS PROJECT IS UNDER ACTIVE DEVELOPMENT. SO YOU MIGHT SEE SOME BREAKING CHANGES!**

## Prerequisites

The minimum required tools for using the Gopamin CLI is Golang which can be download from [Go All Releases](https://go.dev/dl). To have full development setup though, other tools are also recommended to be installed on your local machine:

-   **[Git](https://git-scm.com/)**: By default each new project created by this tool initializes a Git repo; that's why you need to make sure Git is installed on your machine.
-   **[Docker](https://www.docker.com)**: A `Dockerfile` is included in each new project for containerization purposes.
-   **[GNU Make](https://www.gnu.org/software/make)**: This a tool which controls the generation of executables and other types of files. By default, each new project includes a `Makefile` for running simple commands (This tool is installed by default on Mac and some distributions of Linux). To check whether this tool is installed on your machine, open terminal and run `make --version`.

## Installation

To install Gopamin CLI, run the following command inside terminal:

```text
$ go install -v github.com/gopamin/cli/cmd/gopamin@latest
```

To make sure it's installed correctly in your `$GOPATH`, run the following command:

```text
$ gopamin version
```

## Usage

If you got the current version correctly in the previous step, now you can create a new project by running the following command:

```text
$ gopamin new -h
```

The above command show the help on how to use different flags to scaffold different types of projects.

## Possible Project Types

### Hello World

After being asked about "Project type?", you can select "Hello World" which will create a simple Go application with the following structure:

```text
.
├── .dockerignore
├── .env
├── .git
├── .gitignore
├── Dockerfile
├── LICENSE
├── Makefile
├── README.md
├── cmd
│   └── main.go
├── configs
│   └── load-env.go
├── go.mod
└── go.sum
```

-   `.dockerignore`: This file is used to ignore those files that shouldn't be added to the Docker image. By default, `Dockerfile`, `.git`, and `.env` files are added.
-   `.env`: This file includes a sample key/value.
-   `.git`: After creating a project with Gopamin CLI, by default a Git repository will be initialized in it.
-   `.gitignore`: By default, `.env` file is added to `.gitignore`.
-   `Dockerfile`: Basic Docker commands are added to this file for containerization purposes.
-   `LICENSE`: By default, "MIT License" is added to newly-created projects. Feel free to remove/update it.
-   `Makefile`: Basic commands are added to the `Makefile` for running the application.
-   `README.md`: Some default text is added to this file. Feel free to update it.
-   `cmd/main.go`: This file is the starting point of the Go application.
-   `configs/load-env.go`: This file reads environment variables from `.env` file in the root of the project.
-   `go.mod`: This is the default `go.mod` file for Go programs.
-   `go.sum`: This is the default `go.sum` file for Go programs.

## How to Run Newly-created Projects

To understand the steps for executing projects generated by the Gopamin CLI, refer to the `README.md` file located in the root path of each newly created project. The `README.md` provides detailed instructions to walk you through the entire process.

## Author

This project is maintained by [Bez Moradi](https://github.com/bezmoradi)

## License

Gopamin CLI is licensed under [MIT](https://github.com/gopamin/cli/blob/master/LICENSE)
